in the previous video we first started
talking about taking tkinter and we learn
the basics and we showed the basic window on the screen and I ended
the video talking about geometry managers
and how we needed to find out a bit more
about those so once you got a window the applications widgets the things
that you wanna appear on that window or in that
window can be placed on that window
using one of three different geometry
managers the most useful ones probably
the grid manager but we're going to
start with the pack manager which is
most commonly used and the reason for that
is the first and probably the
easiest to become familiar with so one
thing to note here is that everything
in tk is a window and objects are
placed in a hierarchy so in our example
on the screen main window is the root
window so everything else must be placed within it
or within one of the child windows
now not every window can have children but
every window except the route one must
have a master window so to see the effects
of positioning widgets we are going to be
using pack as I mentioned and we are going to be using a
canvas widget now this is intended generally the
canvas widget for displaying graphics
but we are gonna use it because by
changing to have raised appearance and
giving it a border it becomes really easy
to see where it is on the screen
and that's important as we gonna be
re positioning it now more obvious choice
here maybe to use a button because
they're already raised and have a border but
thjs would worked fine on Windows and Linux but
on a Mac interestingly enough the button
widget is the native MAC button and consequently
its height
cannot be changed anyway so we won't be
able to demonstrate something because of
that so one of the things you really want to
demonstrate here is how to stretch a widget
horizontally and vertically and button widget is not gonna be suitable for OSX and that's why
again we've gone for the canvas so lets type some code in first and run it and then we'll go
through that code so what we going to do
is delete a bit of stuff first I'm going to delete on line 6
and 7 those two references to print
out the versions the tk version and
TCL version we don't need that anymore
and what we are gonna do is leave the code on line 10 which is now push down to line 12 as the last
entry because of course that we need to
run that as the last entry so that it actually
kicks up the process and shows that window
and we are gonna add firstly a label
that by typing....
.....
....and then what we need to do is
add it using geometry manager......
...now we add the canvas that I talk about....
.....
......
....
.....and as I mentioned
on line 17 the last line
is going to be left like so it will
invoke the code and run it  so now if we run this and if I tab over we can actually see Python in here and there
is our first example you can see the
screen and by looking at that you should
really see what the code is doing line
11 creates the label widget with the
text hello world and you can see that
now at the top of the screen just below
the title its the code on
line 8 is producing that title which
can see the gray background that
the label is actually below that which
was created on line 11 then and also
added on line 12 again using the pack
method and the canvases I've created in a similar way on line 14 but this time because
we specified side='left' its appeared on the left hand side of the
window obviously this is a very simple
layout but it is useful to look at some
of the options available when placing
widgets on the window using pack so
what we can do is we can make the canvas
fill the height or width of the window technically its
master using the field parameters which
can be set to X Y or both
so what we can do is come back to the
canvas.pack line on line 15 we could
do something like......
so if we do that uppercase Y keep that in mind and run that you can see now that we've actually got a
feeling vertically so its filled the
height of the main window from the bottom of
the label down to the bottom of the
window and the space at the top of the screen
where the label is being placed is
automatically reserved as well as so its
not using that space because the label
was already allocated that space prior to
canvas command being added now changing Y to X may be
expected to extend the canvas across
the entire width of the screen but if you do so which I will show you now you'll find it doesn't actually work
so if we change this to X and run that you can see basically
it hasn't worked to get that to work there is
actually another option
what you need to do is add another name to
parameter and what's called
expand and you need to set that to true so lets add that parameter come back into line
15 leave the Tkinter.x but also add the extra
name parameter....and run that and you can see it
now it has been expanded horizontally
across the left to right so why the
expand parameter is not required for
canvas to fill vertically may appear to be
one of life's mysteries but there
actually is a reason for it and to see
it in action what we gonna do is close this down
and if you change the option here
side='left' to side='top'  and
actually remove the expand=true and
run again
you can see that it does expand horizontally
without the addition to expand parameter
but then if you change this to tkinter.Y and check that out now the vertical expansion no longer
works which is quite frustrating but if we
change that to expand.....
...and run again you could see it
does now work if you try to use both so if we go
back and delete the expand and set that to both
which is an option to expand vertically and
horizontally if we run that you can see it
does actually expand horizontally but
not vertically but we can add the expand.....run that again and now it's being expanded both
horizontally and vertically so a little
bit frustrating but that's just the way
things actually work with Tkinter keep that
in mind that you need to use expand in certain
circumstances to get it to expand
appropriately so lets change things back to
left again I'm gonna get rid of the field
and get rid of the expand so we just got to basic
command their we are gonna add some buttons so lets now add some widgets just to see how things
line up next to each other so I'm going to
create three buttons here so...
......
.....and if we run this
...you can see that when widgets share the same side they are placed adjacent to each other in the order that they're
actually packed in this case the buttons
are actually now centered against the
canvas which is to left of it which is not always you'd probably want so we can
change this by setting the anchor option
which takes values corresponding to the
four main points of the compass for the
center which is the default so what we
can do here is come back here to the pack
line for each one we could say.....
...and run that, and oops I made a typo and obviously Python told me that I made a typo so will fix that and run
it again have a look so you can see now we've
got something completely different we've got
button 1 we specified an anchor of n its at the
top of the screen we specified button 2
have an anchor of s which is the
bottom of the screen and obviously button
3 still side of left for 3 but the anchor is East which is
obviously to the right hand side so you might think all three are actually doing something
here but what's probably not obviously its only n and s are actually doing anything here because the buttons have been
packed to the vertical side of the window anchor can only be therefore affect vertical
positioning horizontally the buttons
place to the left of where the previous
button ends similarly if we packed them to
the top or bottom edges and anchors are only
going to affect their horizontal position makes sense so seeing that in operation I'm going to close this down
and let's go ahead and change the code
change the canvas pack to top again and we are
also going to change the side to be equal to top for all three buttons
we should find the anchor is now only
affecting the horizontal position so if we
run that again you can see what's
happened their ok so the documentation states
that you can also specify the for
intermediate compass points such as NW for
north west for example but this will actually
not make any difference to the behavior
we've just observed widgets packed
with vertical edge that's left or right
can only have a vertical position altered
by anchor the ones packed horizontal edge top
and bottom can only have their horizontal positions change now although we can place widgets inside a frame to
both group them together and position them a
little bit better pack is really only
suitable for very simple layouts so of the
3 geometry managers that are part of
Python part of Tkinter pack is
really the most basic pf the 3 and the
options are still a little bit limited
as a result let's go ahead and add some
code to add a frame so you can see what I
mean by that so put...
.....
......
....and canvas what we are going to do is instead
of specifying main window we just create a frame so were going to use that instead
so we are going to type leftFrame so its
using that we're gonna leave relief
equals raised and borther width to 1 canvas.pack we are going to put that to the left hand
side and we are also gonna add an anchor of n north next
we are gonna add a right frame and put the
buttons in that right frame so I'm gonna type...
.....
......
...and three buttons we are going to change those so they are not using main window they are going to be using right frame and
we are going to remove the anchor from
each of those buttons because they're actually inside the
frame the right frame that we've added them to
I should say.....and if we run that
we managed to achieve what we were trying
to set out their we got a frame on the left hand
side that contains the canvas and a frame
on the right hand side that contains our
three buttons but as I mentioned pack is
really only suitable for very simple
layouts and its the most basic
of the 3 geometry managers included
with Tkinter I'm going to finish this
video now in the next video what we gonna do
is gonna move on and start looking at the
place geometry manager which is even
simpler than pack but it can also be really
useful in specific situations so see you in
the next video